### RISC-V assembly
1. Which registers contain arguments to functions? For example, which register holds 13 in main's call to `printf`?

	- `a0 - a1` Function arguments / return values
	- `a2 - a7` Function arguments

- addition
	- `rd` return address
	- `sp` stack pointer
	- `ra` return address
	- `gp` global pointer
	- `tp` thread pointer
	- `t0` temporary / alternate link register
	- `t1 - t2` temporaries
	- `s0/fp` saved register / frame pointer
	- `s1` register
	- `s2 - s11` saved registers
	- `t3 - t6` temporaries 

2. Where is the call to function `f` in the assembly code for main? Where is the call to `g`? (Hint: the compiler may inline functions.)

	- `main` call `f` before call `printf`, but this value has been calculated and optimized by complier, so `main` will not actually call to `f`.
	- `f` call `g` in address `14` of `call.asm`, but it will not actually call to `g`, for complier have a inline optimize for the function `f`.

 3. At what address is the function `printf` located?

	- `0000000000000630`

4. What value is in the register ra just after the `jalr` to `printf` in main?

	- `34`. The value of `pc` has been saved to `ra` with `auipc` happened at address `30`;

5. Run the following code.
```c
	unsigned int i = 0x00646c72;
	printf("H%x Wo%s", 57616, &i);
```
What is the output? [Here's an ASCII table](http://web.cs.mun.ca/~michael/c/ascii-table.html) that maps bytes to characters. The output depends on that fact that the RISC-V is little-endian. If the RISC-V were instead big-endian what would you set `i` to in order to yield the same output? Would you need to change `57616` to a different value? [Here's a description of little- and big-endian](http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/b/big_endian.html) and [a more whimsical description](http://www.networksorcery.com/enp/ien/ien137.txt).

The result is `HE110 World`.

6. In the following code, what is going to be printed after 'y='? (note: the answer is not a specific value.) Why does this happen?
```c
	printf("x=%d y=%d", 3);
```

Frist, I get the hierarchical call stack of `printf` from `call.asm`.
- `printf`
	- `vprintf`
		1. (not be executed in sequence)
		- `putc`
		- `printint`
		- self jump
		2. (in sequence)
		- `...` a bunch of code with condition judgement
		- `putc`
		- `ret`
	- `ret`
- `ret`

The reason is right here in `putc`, when the function call `putc`, the register of `a1` will be changed to `1`. Thus, if you call `printf` repeatedly, the `a1` will exactly set to `1` from last time. Otherwise the value of `a1` is uncertain

***You may curious about what the difference between `a0` and `0(a0)`, the former stands for using the value of `a0` as the operand, and `0(a0)` stands for using the address that `(a0 + 0)` point to as operand.***

Has my program jumped to another physical address table (the address in a different assembly file) when `alarmtick` is triggered?
- explain why, in comments of partial code copy.
```c
	// because of the actually thing xv6 do that call programs is calling exec() or fork() to cause memory modifications to accomplish this purpose
	// and current `proc` will be destoryed when the exec is called
	// so do not worry about the saved pc will point to a incorrect physical address
```
- But actually, you can not handle this by yourself. User program need to be run in `user mode` that fully have permission to access the user pagetable. 

Which registers need to be saved (recovered) and which do not?
- not need to be saved (need a always up-to-date value)
	- `kernel_satp`
	- `kernel_sp`
	- `kernel_trap`
	- `kernel_hartid`
- need to be saved
	- all registers (I can't figure out which is used and which not)
	- `pc` the breakpoint that you need recover to 


What is the correlation between `myproc()` and `mycpu()`?